---
layout: page
type: page
published: false
status: private
---
Kin was the band I was in once upon a time.

This is the story of my experiences adding to the rich fabric of rock
history.

* Antony Gelberg: guitar
* David Okuniew: guitar and backing vocals
* Paul Richman: bass guitar
* Daniel Spencer: lead vocals
* Hezi Yechiel: drumset, cymbals and percussion

Here is the story of my experiences adding to rock history. I also have
sound clips for your enjoyment.

It started in Carmel College boarding school, Wallingford, in late
1994\. How very Genesis. I had a season ticket at Arsenal with Paul, an
old friend even then. I had been playing guitar for a year or so, and he
told me that his mates were forming a band and needed another guitarist.
I wanted to do it, but didn't know if I was good enough. He came back to
my house after one game, and I played a little, I don't remember what,
maybe some Chilis. I must have rocked, as he told the others I was good,
and they were willing to give it a go.

I first met them in a room in Paul's house in Henley-on-Thames. I was
pretty nervous as I was on trial, but it went well enough. A few
arrangements had already been written, so I had to learn quickly and
think up my own parts. But I liked the songs - I really thought they had
potential.

Later on that night, David played "Pink Sunshine Week" while I searched
for a good accompanying part. Eventually I found something we both
liked, and I nodded off, feeling I had made a good contribution and the
sky was the limit.

These photos are from the first time we played in a rehearsal studio. It
was in Wandsworth, South London, so far from home that we never went
back. Some of these poses are a bit odd.

Kin Picture Me with my Fender Strat guitar. Kin Picture Paul
concentrating on his bass, Hezi over his shoulder. Kin Picture Daniel
and Paul outside in the street, for some reason. Kin Picture Paul and
Daniel again, this time back in the studio environment. Kin Picture
Hezi, Paul, Daniel and myself. Paul appears not to be playing. Now
that's rock. Kin Picture Hezi with a poster stuck to the side of his
head. This was later surgically removed in a painful but necessary
procedure. Kin Picture Hezi, Paul, me and Daniel. Kin Picture More
craziness from Paul and Daniel. Kin Picture Hezi at the drum kit. Kin
Picture David with his Washburn guitar.

We had different influences as at the time. I was mostly listening to
seminal 70s rock, and they liked more contemporary alternative stuff. I
think we all learned a little. They opened my eyes to the fact that not
all of today's music is crap. We moulded the different styles together
well, we were 17 years old, and we'd re-invented prog rock without
knowing what it was.

We didn't jam too much soon after that, because of school, and there
were a few months until the end of the year. But that summer was when
Kin really started to become a band. Daniel was off at Camp America, but
the rest of us jammed every few days to arrange the music, and learn to
play in time and in tune. Getting tight isn't as easy as it looks. In a
couple of months we progressed from being almost unlistenable to almost
listenable.

The others already knew the songs well, because they had heard them so
much at to school together. I had to learn about four or five songs
quite quickly. I remember that every new song David played to me sounded
really good. That made me happy - to have landed in a band with good,
heartfelt songs, when most bands these days don't have those. We added,
chopped, and changed, and I remember being very excited for Daniel to
come back and complete us.

Daniel listened to some of our rehearsal tapes when he returned, and he
was stunned by our progress. We continued to jam throughout the winter
of 1995\. The first couple of times with Daniel back were a little
frustrating, because of all the changes. But David and Daniel lived
together, so that wasn't much of a problem, he got up to speed quickly
enough. Some of the rehearsals from this time were amongst our most raw,
as I think we were really excited by what we were creating. I have some
tapes in a box somewhere...

The next stage was to get some gigs, but we needed a demo to send to
venues. Eventually, by the end of 1995, we had got to the point where we
could play together and sound like a "real" band. We were still far from
brilliant, but we were good enough to lay some tracks down on tape. We
used recording studios near Wallingford, where they had recorded some
stuff at school. So along we went to the "humorously"-named Tone Deaf
Studios, with around Â£800 between us (thanks Mum and Dad). Our engineer,
Arpad, was a chilled, old-school muso, and the studios were on a farm,
in the middle of nowhere (actually near Goring, Oxfordshire). It was
nice and quiet and peaceful, an oasis of calm, very dark, wooden and
warm. I immediately warmed to the vibe.

Kin Picture This was taken at the Tone-Deaf Studios session. I think
this is my favourite picture of all, despite being out of focus. You can
see in our eyes - we're happy, relaxed, and we think we're onto
something good. l-r: David, Daniel, Hezi, me, Paul.

We were there for four days and at the start my chin was on the floor, I
was pretty stunned at all the buttons and knobs. We set up our
instruments and tried to capture the songs with live takes, playing
together. It took ages to get things right, and then there were overdubs
for vocals, solos, guitar and one bass drum hit. The live takes weren't
helped by the fact that I (and probably the others too) couldn't
concentrate as hard as I would have liked, it was all so new and
overwhelming. All I could think whilst playing was, "God, we're actually
recording.... we are in a real studio.... being recorded.... don't make
any mistakes.... oh shit, gonna be doing that bit again.". It was
frustrating, because it is not as easy as it looks. You have to be in
time - the whole time. If someone else did something different to usual,
that could put you off. Any new ideas had to be evaluated quickly. But
eventually we had six basic tracks down.

Daniel and David then spent quite a bit of time on the vocals. They were
difficult to get right, I think Dan had a cold which was giving him
grief, that's a singer's life for you, the most difficult job in the
band. Anyone can knock out a guitar track if they're feeling under the
weather. We had quite a few harmonies as well, which took time to nail.
I got to play a few solos, which I hadn't really prepared for - just
thinking that great ideas would flow out of my amp. This proved to be a
naive view. When I was in there by myself, preparing to improvise
something, hoping it would be good, and knowing that everyone was
telling me to hurry up because we were running out of time, it was a
very lonely place to be. I thrived under the pressure - usually we used
the take that was the one preceded by Arpad telling me through my cans
that this was it, if this one didn't work out we could forget about it.
I should have been more prepared but in the end, I was pretty happy with
my work.

With about a day left, we had to start mixing. Any engineer will tell
you that that is not enough time. We had been warned - maybe we should
have recorded one or two songs less. Now mixing is boring but a good mix
can make all the difference. Arpad and David did most of it, but we all
made suggestions. Decisions were made about which songs to mix, because
we didn't have time to do them all. Somewhere in my cupboard there are
unmixed, unheard versions of Pink Sunshine Week and Museum Piece from
those sessions. Maybe we'll mix them for our forthcoming "Bootlegs,
B-Sides, and Other Stuff" album. The ones that were done were "National
Irrelevancy Day", "Sleep With My Friends", and "Knit". Arpad put them on
a DAT, took our money and that was that.

We went back home very excited. We played the CD to our friends who
weren't as excited as I hoped they might be, but I suppose that's only
natural. Or is it? David and Daniel started to contact venues with a
view to us gigging. And we went back to practising like nutters. After
all, we were going to be the next Led Zeppelin.... well I never really
thought that, but believe me, you do dream.

We still had no manager. This is where Efi Raymond came in. Efi was
Daniel's girlfriends' cousin, and a great talker (read: bullshitter). He
told us that he was what we needed to progress, that he had loads of
contacts and that he could help us. Now I am not one to knock people, so
all I'll say is that Efi really got us to practise hard, and regularly.
In rehearsals, when we would get frustrated because things were not
going well, Efi would try to knock us into shape and tell us to play it
again and again and again. And that is all I am going to say about that.

We went back into another studio, to record some more, as we had some
new songs coming together, and we needed more and better songs to demo.
This time we went to a small all-digital studio in Hackney, London. I
have to say I don't remember as much about these sessions, infact I
think me and Paul had to work and we were only there about half the
time. When I walked in there for the first time, the drums and most of
the guitars had already been laid down. No live takes here, the room was
too small. We only spent a couple of days there, but we were better
players by then, and we had a better idea of what we wanted to achieve.
We did a new song, "Cherryade Chalk Dust", and a new version of the
first Kin song I ever heard, "Pink Sunshine Week". Paul did his bass in
record time, then I did my rhythm tracks pretty quickly - David had
already done a couple of rhythm tracks, including some good acoustic
stuff. The Pink Sunshine Week solo had a form by now, I found that okay,
but for Cherryade Chalk Dust, yet again I hadn't done my homework.
Luckily (again on the last take), I managed to pull off what I think was
my best solo ever, including some lucky "accidental" notes! I didn't
really like the more 90's sounds we got in that studio, but the others
will probably disagree with me. I just think the songs lacked a certain
warmth that you only get from analog equipment. However, the resulting
mixes did sound tighter, and we now really had a strong "portfolio" of
songs for venues and record companies to listen to.

The gig offers were actually coming in now, and we were still practising
hard. Our first gig ever was at the London School of Economics bar.
Daniel studied there, so that's how we got that gig. We told plenty of
people to come, and the crowd was probably 70% our friends. But that
didn't matter to us, at least we were out there for the world to hear. I
remember when I walked in to the room, and started to set up my stuff,
how excited I was. We did a soundcheck and spent most of the build up
talking to friends who had come to see us, talking to each other, but
before we knew it, it was time to go on. I remember being in the
corridor outside, about 5 minutes before going on, just us five and Efi.
This was it. Going on stage, everything was a blur. I tuned up, and
whilst doing so, realised that my hands were actually shaking. The first
song, Museum Piece, was started by me alone, which didn't help my
nerves. It was only after about four songs that I stopped shaking and
started to enjoy myself. But I have to say, the mid-set interval came
very very quickly. Everything was a blur and I was finding it hard to
remember how to play songs that I had played so many times before, and
thought I knew inside out. Our set included cover "classics", Cherub
Rock by Smashing Pumpkins, Creep by Radiohead, and One by U2\. I don't
think we ever played a cover song again, and rightly so. They were just
embarassing, when I look back (except maybe for Cherub Rock). The second
half flew by quicker than the first, and before I knew it, it was all
over. When we came off, congratulations were coming from everywhere, it
didn't matter to me that most of the "fans" were our friends anyway. I
was just pleased that they turned up to support us, and when I look
back, a lot of our friends were very supportive through good and bad. We
went home exhausted, but we had a little party at our house anyway. And
why not? After all, we had more gigs lined up, and we were only going to
get better.

Our next gig was the Rock Garden, in Covent Garden, London. I was really
excited to be playing there, because I had actually been there to see
bands I liked play. So to me that meant we were getting on the next rung
of the ladder.

Kin Picture A backstage pass for the Rock Garden when we played there.
Sounds cool, until you see the backstage area. The King's Head, Fulham,
London Highbury Garage, Highbury, London

Here are some pictures from what turned out to be our last ever gig, at
Highbury Garage, London. We didn't know that at the time, though. David
is actually playing my Fender, as he broke a string and didn't have any
spares! That shows you how well organised we were. Paul and Hezi got a
bit of a rough deal here, because you can't see them too much. It
doesn't really matter though. As far as Paul goes, we all know that
no-one can hear the bass anyway, so why should he be in the pictures?
And Hezi always said, "The drummer shouldn't be the focal point of the
band." Well, he got what he wanted.

Kin Picture A flyer for the gig. Kin Picture Hezi, David, Daniel and me.
If you look carefully to the right of the big speaker cabinet, you can
just see the headstock of Paul's bass. Kin Picture Paul, David, Daniel,
me. Unfortunately this is the first of many where Hezi is obscured from
view. We liked it that way. Kin Picture Paul, David, Daniel, me. The
interesting fact here is that even though you can't see Hezi, his
girlfriend Annabel is clearly visible in the foreground. The irony is
thick. Kin Picture A speaker cabinet, David, Daniel. Kin Picture David
(partially obscured), Daniel, me. I think this is the best view of my
Gibson Les Paul - the cherry sunburst finish perfectly complements my
Marshall t-shirt. Obviously I wasn't sponsored by Marshall, I just liked
my t-shirt to match my amp. Kin Picture David, Daniel, me.

Then, David and Daniel went to Mexico for three months. Whilst they were
gone, we didn't do anything. I suppose I was a bit worried, because we
had built up some momentum, and we could have carried on gigging,
writing songs and practising. Although there was still no record company
interest. But I was still shocked and upset when David came round to our
house. I was hoping for him to say that we should work harder now they
were back, get back into things and see what happened. However, part of
me knew what was coming, and that was something like, "Antony, I'm
sorry, but me and Daniel don't want to do the band thing anymore." He
also said that himself and Daniel were going on by themselves. Inside, I
was more gutted than I've ever been. The feeling of emptiness was
incredibly depressing. But I unsuccessfully tried not to show it, and
just mumbled something about good luck and stuff like that. I think Paul
and Hezi knew what was coming, but maybe that's just my imagination.

At the end of the day, even though we all wrote bits, the band was (in
my opinion) David's vision, his baby. With that in mind, if he wasn't
inspired any more, what was the point of carrying on? I now realise
that, but it took me a long time. I still don't know exactly why they
wanted to split up. Maybe some things are better left unsaid. I was
always happy that I was in a band where every note of every song came
from our hearts, and if the music had stopped coming from our hearts, I
would have been much less comfortable.

I always used to say and think things like, "If it all ended now, I
would look back and say that I had a really amazing time, and we really
achieved something special." And years later, I still stick by that. I
dedicate this page to Dan, Dave, Paul and Hezi, and to our good friends
and supporters. You know who you are. The good thing about music is that
a good song lasts forever, and because of that, these memories will
never fade. Now you've read all that, maybe you'd like to hear some
sound clips.
