---
title: Man Seeks Home, Finds Himself
---
Psuedo-philosophy aside, it was time to deal with earthly matters and
find somewhere to live.  This would surely be piss-easy.  Just check out
the adverts, visit the flats, haggle a bit, move in, and let the wild
parties begin, er I mean let the process of integration truly begin.  I
had few concrete plans, but I definitely wanted to live with someone
else, preferably a tzabar so that I could improve my Ivrit.  I checked
the same old websites that everyone suggested and found a couple of
possibilities to get the ball rolling.

Flatshare one was advertised as near Neve Tzedek.  Now I don't want to
get all Ms Fargher or Mr West on yo' ass (pass the mind bleach), but a
little geography lesson may be in order, after all it's not _you_ who is
known as Tony Tel Aviv.  Neve Tzedek is one of the oldest parts of the
city, known for its old, charming buildings, gentrified village feel,
and expensive property.  Holon is a town to the south of Tel Aviv, known
for being where you go to do your driving test.  Sort of like Luton.  We
all know people who failed in London and then passed in Luton.  Not me. 
I stuck out weeks of embarrassment so as not to cheat the system.  I'm
not bitter, really.  NB I've been to Holon and it is much better than
Luton, but it seemed like a good idea to tie in the driv... ah, forget
it.

I called up and the pleasant-sounding A gave me the address, which I
looked up on Google Maps, only to find that the it was near Neve Tzedek
in the same way that Kingsbury is near St John's Wood.  An estate agent
would probably call it "Tel Aviv Village".  Nevertheless, being far too
British to call and cancel, and feeling that I should at least go and
look at _something_ to get the ball rolling, I made my way down there. 
The roof terrace was okay, with a view of equally uninspiring areas, the
room was also... okay.  Are you getting the theme here?  I met flatmate
number 2, who appeared to have just woken up (this was the late
afternoon), and managed to utter that the terrace would be "party
central" in the summer.  This was a bit of a stretch, like being told
that a Colindale rooftop is "party central".  I went down to the lounge
which contained nothing apart from some chairs and a table and made an
executive decision not to rush things.  However frustrating the gypsy
lifestyle was becoming, it wouldn't be as annoying as committing to live
somewhere you don't like.

Yes, the gypsy lifestyle.  It has been, 'ow you say,
character-building.  I'd love to sit here and write about how my
principles and values helped ground me as my physical being wafted over
the holy ground where my forefathers walked.  But I just can't lie to
you.  It has been a right ballache, and I more or less had to turn off
the human switch and stop thinking about it, like any other animal
fighting for survival.  It was strange and a little disappointing, as on
paper travelling is fun.

But there's a difference between broadening horizons by experiencing new
things, and wanting so much to have a stable home, lugging stuff around
Gush Dan and beyond, without one's own transport, and perpetually trying
to work out the optimum time to hang about at a relative or friend.  Too
short and there's too much moving to get anything done.  Too long and
you're biting the hand that feeds you.  And it's never easy to get your
hands on anything.  Stuff here, stuff there, stuff not even with me (and
I didn't travel with an awful lot).  This seems like a good time to
point out that I'm eternally grateful to _everyone_ who sorted me out. 
Obviously you benefitted from the way that my charming, sophisticated
company filled your abodes and lives with joy and light, but still - I'd
have been on the plane home if it wasn't for you.  Or in a Mercaz Klita,
but the plane sounds more dramatic.

Anyway, back to the property hunt.  Flatshare two was more appealing on
paper.  It was in Ramat Aviv, an upmarket area near the university at
the other end of the city.  Generally speaking, as you travel north in
Tel Aviv, you go from edgy, lively, and hip to leafy, refined, and
classy.  It was at this point that my lack of personal transport, which
had grated since early on, really started to annoy me, especially as
Shabbat was getting near.  Keen to get out of the wilderness, and not
wanting to get two buses all the way across town, I splashed out on a
cab.

It's a shame that cabs are the most expensive way of getting around,
because I have a thing about talking to cab drivers.  They don't always
speak English, and they're sitting in a cab for much of the day with
nobody to talk to.  This makes them the ideal Ivrit practice partner. 
They're bored, so they're happy to hear my life story, and they don't
drop into English.  As in most cities, they also tend to be
philosophical salt of the earth types, and are happy to talk about and
listen to almost anything.  I have rarely left a cab here unsatisfied
(yes, yes I know but I thought I'd leave it in - oops, that's even
worse, apologies to any Victorians reading...).  Apart from the one guy
who didn't want to chat as he was listening to the news.  Worst value
cab journey ever, he _still_ got a tip but through gritted teeth, if
you'll excuse me mangling the metaphor.

Again, the actual flat had little going for it.  It was so bare, it was
more like a shell.  I've compiled a few useful tips for tenants seeking
flatmates.

* It always looks good if the lounge contains more than a couch, table,
  and perhaps a dusty television.
* If the kitchen is lizard-free, that's going to get you brownie points.
* Some people find an excess of mould in the bathroom unpleasant.
* I don't care if you're a student, it's no excuse for having nothing on
  the wall, at least stick up a worn-out poster of Che Guevara / Theodor
  Herzl / Dave Mustaine (delete as applicable).
* Put a vase on a table and whack a plant in it.
* At least try to give the impression that life as opposed to existence
  is taking place.

I'm in danger of boring myself, so let's just say that Flatshare the
Third (First Blood Part VI) was mainly defined by the lounge, which
could have been great but just contained a load of junk.  It was
impossible even to sit down and stare outside at the beautiful view.  If
they couldn't be arsed to sort that out, no way was I going to get
involved.  The rice-cooker bubbling away in the middle of said lounge
tempted me to make an offer there and then, but I somehow managed to
drag myself down the stairs and out of the building before my heart was
able to dominate my head.  Don't worry - future episodes will _not_
contain in-depth descriptions of the other seventeen places that
I looked at.

The pressure was building.  It was becoming apparent that finding a roof
might be a little bit more difficult than I had anticipated, and it was
time to move on.  V was having her kitchen done, F needed her room, and
I'd already been there long enough that any more would be biting the
hand...  However when I moaned about it, several people told me that
they'd been through the gypsy thing as well, which made me feel a bit
more hopeful, not to mention normal.  After all, as much as we try to
follow our own paths, is there anyone on this planet who hasn't derived
some short-term solace from a metaphorical arm round the shoulder?
