---
header:
  image: "assets/images/header/raanana-park-1280x375.jpg"
  image_description: "Ra'anana Park"
  caption: "Image credit: tapuz.co.il"
title: "... And He Can't Find His Way Home"
---
Even though there was (and still is - this was written weeks ago) the
primal uncertainty of not having a home, for the most part there has
been more good than bad.  There has also been quite a bit of "What the
hell am I doing here?", but let's be honest, we've all had one of those
waiting for the tube at Belsize Park after a few expensive drinks in
some charmless bar.

By definition, growing up with most of one's cousins abroad creates a
certain distance, but we've been getting on like friends, not family,
and I mean that as a compliment.  I could bang on about them
individually but I don't want them to get big heads (especially L whose
fluffy barnet threatens to engulf any room she graces with her
presence).  My guitar lessons went down a treat, I now know that rock is
in my genes, nature not nurture perhaps.  Although learning rock on a
classical guitar is not the way forward.  It goes against the whole
essence of the beast, and I'm sure Dio would agree.  There's always time
to learn theory later, but the most important thing is to follow one's
calling.  Do you want to solo like Petrucci?  Do you want to riff along
to Megadeth's Holy Wars?  As Dave Mustaine screeched, "Don't look now to
Israel, it might be your homeland."  But then he was probably strung out
on smack at the time, so who knows what he _really_ meant.

Special mention to V, who even though she runs a family home and works,
still managed to find time to make sure I partook of her excellent food
and that I had clean pants.  I'm not sure what is more important,
moussaka that you actually want to eat more of, or that clean, fresh,
snug and supportive feeling.  Then again, pants appear to be somewhat
optional in this part of the world (the country, not their flat).  I
might experiment with that when I've worn out my current batch.  Not a
lot of people would ask around their neighbours to find non-biological
detergent for me.  In fact I can't think of anyone who has _ever_ done
that.  There are no words to describe the warm hospitality and welcome
that these guys provided, and that made the landing somewhat soft.  They
can all cook too - I even had some hot dogs with my ketchup.

Whilst in Ra'anana, I managed to get back onto my marathon training
schedule.  I have a place to run this April, and I'm trying to stick to
the plan.  It turns out that emigration-time is probably not the best
moment to take on one of the greatest physical challenges known to man.
I'll probably know by mid-March whether I have a chance of going the
distance.  Ra'anana, being a Model Town has various road-running routes
mapped out by the council, so the inhabitants may be Model Citizens and
keep fit after a day working in high-tech and driving home in a white
mid-range saloon with the company name emblazoned on the rear wing.  I
was there for a couple of weeks, and eventually a 10km circle of the
town felt like a walk in the park.  One fine afternoon I ran through the
park, listening to Iron Maiden's brilliant Somewhere In Time.

Now I know what you're thinking.  Spandex, big hair, and mullets.  Or
"I've never heard any of their music but I've got the t-shirt."  Er,
anyway, so it was impossible not to be lifted as The Loneliness Of The
Long Distance Runner faded out, to be followed by Stranger In A Strange
Land.  Just _how_ did they know?  Did Steve Harris sit there in the
eighties, throw back his curly mane, slag off Millwall, and then declare
that in a quarter of a century, some bloke would be running quite far in
a foreign country?  It's always nice when music touches you in a unique
way.  Not like when all the ladies thought that James Blunt was calling
_them_ beautiful.  After years of faithful service and much repair, the
iRiver H340 may be on its way out.  I don't think it likes being shaken
as I run, but if I can find a replacement hard disk, it will live again.

The annoying thing is that hand on heart, I don't really want to go back
for the marathon, and that is going to make training hard.  It's always
difficult to do something you don't _really_ want to do.  I want to
raise the money and I want to run twenty-six miles without walking, but
I don't want to jump on a plane just as I'm starting to feel vaguely
comfortable here. The human brain is a weird beast, and despite
thirty-two years in the old country and, no years here, I feel that it
would be weird to go back now, even for a few days.  I mean, the yellow
signs at Heathrow Airport?  What's with that shit?  Or as S might say, ?
מה זה, השיט הזה .  I love that sentence, it sounds so _right_.  I mean,
it's all very well prowling twenty square miles for most of one's life.
But have you been to Shadwell lately?  Walworth?  Dagenham?  Stoke?
Aston?  Bridgend?  Who, after all, is the Stranger in the Strange Land?

(Header image: Park Ra'anana.)
