---
layout: post
---
So the big question is:

> How do you start writing a blog about your attempt to live in a new
> country?

...

That'll do, I suppose.

I left the old country at the end of January, over a month ago, and it's
only now that I've had a chance to lie down with my laptop and write a
few words about my experience so far.  I'm humbled by the enquiries from
friends and family who want to know how things are going.  But if I take
the time to reply to everyone individually, my life will be (even more)
about sitting at a computer staring at a screen, which is probably not
the way forward.  Hence I decided to try and blog every now and then.
You can assume that less time blogging = more life.

The story really starts thirty-two years ago when I was born in the
Salvation Army Hospital, Upper Clapton, but let's fast-forward to three
days before departure.  A violent illness threatened to make me postpone
my flight, but I just couldn't face doing that again and spending
another month in limbo.  So, weakened just when I needed to be at my
strongest, I managed to finish most of the important things at home in a
sort of unpleasant adrenalin-fuelled blur.  Didn't even have time to
enjoy the beauty that I had created.

I hadn't had time to find a flatshare, and I was reduced to asking on
Facebook if anyone knew someone with a couch that I could kip on for a
couple of nights.  This was on Friday night, which would mean that my
numerous religious relatives wouldn't see the message.  I didn't hold
out much hope.

The olds were relatively settled in to their new pad, and the snag list
was at an all-time low.  But I wasn't feeling much joy or even relief,
only that I needed to sleep for about a month.  Before I knew it we were
off to the airport, travelling light - suitcase, hand-luggage and a
guitar.  Saying  goodbye was grim, seeing the olds so sad was very hard
to take.  There was no warning, it just sort of hit them - they had been
focused on the move as much as I had, and suddenly I was buggering off.
I walked away and didn't look back, however the mood lightened as I had
to walk along the convoluted path to the terminal and saw them again as
G wrestled with the machine where you put a quid in and it lets you out
of the car park.   Modern technology...

Yes, Luton Airport charge a quid to drop somebody off.  <Extras>Are you
having a laugh?</Extras>  Tight-fisted gits.  The entire airport
experience is suitably tacky given that Easyjet pretty much run the
place.  I joined the check-in queue and cursed myself for being sucked
in by Easyjet's low prices which aren't even that low in the grand
scheme of things.  To be fair though, the airline that practically
charges for oxygen allows you to bring a guitar on board for free, which
is nice.  They don't allow you to rock out and practise your riffs on
the plane though, which is a shame as I had several requests for Master
of Puppets.

Whilst standing in the queue, and wondering why people that can afford
to go skiing would choose to travel on the "cattle transport that thinks
its an airline", I got a call from R.  Now, it's not like R to call me
on a Saturday morning, or indeed any day or time of day, but it turned
out that she had found somewhere for me to stay.  She gave me the number
of her FB, er I mean "friend" Y, and suddenly I had somewhere to go when
the plane landed.  Which was nice.
